Docs/guide graphiql (#1390)
vtex/faststore: apps/docs/docs/how-to-guides/faststore-api/using-graphiql-to-explore-the-faststore-api.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Using GraphiQL to explore the FastStore API

[GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/). You can run GraphiQL on your browser in order to try out queries and mutations in a GraphQL API.

You can explore your store's GraphQL data layer by running a local server of your project.

## Get started

Follow these steps to run a local server and access GraphiQL:
1. Run the command `yarn develop`.
2. Once the local server is up and running, access this address on your browser:
```
http://localhost:8000/__graphql
```

![graphiql home](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/_te1%20graphiql%20jun2022___94e3a61397f80a3dae952941d2bb32cc.png)

:::caution
If this steps do not work for you, you may not have the latest version of the `@faststore/api` dependency installed. You can reinstall it by running the command `yarn` in your project.
:::

> ## Explore

Author: Mudei o título pra `Building queries` e o da seção sobre o **Explorer** pra `Exploring queries interactively`.

You can use the text box on the left side to type queries and mutations. When you are done, click the `Execute Query` button or press `Ctrl + Enter`.

![graphiql query](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/t2%20graphiql%20jun2022___6d2398d64e34bdacd154f807df1ddf97.png)

:::info
If you are not sure what arguments or fields are allowed or required by some query, press `Ctrl + space` to use autocomplete. It will show you all available options.
:::

You can also open the `Explorer` tab to build queries from a checklist.

![graphiql explorer](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/_te3%20graphiql%20jun2022___1ecd4aa2fb20395eb6262e704ef48268.png)

:::caution

> GraphiQL displays many fields which are not part of the FastStore API, but come from the framework used in the project, such as Gatsby or Next.js. To know what is actually part of the FastStore API, check the reference docs for [queries](https://www.faststore.dev/reference/api/queries) or [mutations](https://www.faststore.dev/reference/api/mutations).

Author: Boa! Ajustei o callout.

:::

## Variables

> You can click `QUERY VARIABLES`, at the bottom, to open another text box you can use to organize your variables in JSON format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click `QUERY VARIABLES` at the bottom of the screen to open another text box where you can organize the query variables in JSON format.

Setting the **Query Variables** section is recommended when a query has multiple arguments. Inside the query/mutation parentheses, define the names and types of the variables. Notice that the variable names must be preceded by a dollar sign (`$`). 

In the following example, `MyFirstQuery` accepts two variables: `$first` of type `Int` and `$after` of type `String`. The exclamation mark after the type indicates that the corresponding variable is required.

Create a JSON object on the Query Variables pane with your variable names and values as key-value pairs.
```

Reviewer: Acho que essa parte pode ser mais completinha. Deixei uma sugestão com alguns pontos sobre como utilizar

![graphiql variables](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/_te4%20graphiql%20jun2022___9134ece78377ac52bf839486d0de9aa9.png)

See an example of how to code this:

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="query" label="Query" default>

```graphql
query ExampleWithVariables ($first: Int!, $after: String) {
  allProducts (first: $first, after: $after) {
    edges {
      node {
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="variables" label="Variables" default>

```json
{
  "first": 5,
  "after": "10"
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Documentation

You can also learn more about the types and fields available by opening up the `DOCS` tab in the upper right corner. There you can search or browse through FastStore API queries, mutations and types in order to read the corresponding descriptions.

![graphiql docs](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/_te5%20graphiql%20jun2022___1040a138b8450b6be3d6e3765ac46289.png)

:::caution

> Descriptions are only available for FastStore API types and fields. Types and fields from the framework (e.g., Gatsby, Next.js) are not necessarily documented this way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We always work to ensure that the FastStore API types and fields are documented and available via GraphiQL. However, other APIs and frameworks (e.g., Gatsby, Next.js) may not be necessarily documented this way.
```
